PR for SRVLOGIC-98: Add "Authentication for OpenAPI services" section in the OSL docs (#92245)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-logic-security-config-auth-credentials-openapi.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// serverles-logic/serverless-logic-authentication-openapi-services

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-logic-security-config-auth-credentials-openapi_{context}"]
= Configuring authentication credentials for OpenAPI services

To invoke OpenAPI service operations secured by authentication schemes, you must configure the corresponding credentials and parameters in your application. {ServerlessLogicProductName} uses these configurations to authenticate with the external services during workflow execution.

> This procedure describes how to define and apply the necessary configuration properties for security schemes declared in the OpenAPI specification file. You can use either `application.properties`, the ConfigMap associated to your workflow, or environment variables to provide these credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This procedure describes how to define and apply the necessary configuration properties for security schemes declared in the OpenAPI specification file. You can use either `application.properties`, the `ConfigMap` associated to your workflow, or environment variables to provide these credentials.
```

[NOTE]
====
The security schemes defined in an OpenAPI specification file are global to all the operations that are available in the same file. This means that the configurations set for a particular security scheme also apply to the other secured operations.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have access to a {ServerlessLogicProductName} project with the appropriate roles and permissions to create applications and other workloads in {ocp-product-title}.
* Your OpenAPI specification is defined in one or more security schemes.
* You have access to the OpenAPI specification files.
* You have identified the schemes you want to configure `http-basic-example` or `api-key-example`.
* You have access to the application properties file or environment variable setup.

.Procedure

. Use the following format to compose your property keys:
+

> [source,terminal]

Author: Instead of [properties] attribute I can use [text]

----
$ quarkus.openapi-generator.[filename].auth.[security_scheme_name].[auth_property_name]
----
+
* `filename` is the sanitized name of the file containing the OpenAPI specification, such as security_example_json.
* `security_scheme_name` is the sanitized name of the security scheme object definition in the OpenAPI specification file, such as http_basic_example or api_key_example.
* `auth_property_name` is the name of the property to configure, such as username. This property depends on the defined security scheme type.

. Apply MicroProfile environment variable mapping rules and replace any non-alphabetic characters with underscores `_`.

. Set the credentials by adding the configuration to your `application.properties` or use environment variables by using the following command: 
+

> [source,terminal]

Author: Same as above, I can use [text]

> . Set the credentials by adding the configuration to your `application.properties`, workflow `ConfigMap`, or use environment variables as follows: 

Author: If it is confusing, then I will remove the "or use environment variables" from the content everywhere. WDYT? 

@gmunozfe @wmedvede

> . Set the credentials by adding the configuration to your `application.properties`, workflow `ConfigMap`, or use environment variables as follows: 

Reviewer: @kaldesai regarding question here I have sent some more suggestions on how it should be. We can do a quick sync call maybe to go faster.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// serverles-logic/serverless-logic-authentication-openapi-services

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-logic-security-config-auth-credentials-openapi_{context}"]
= Configuring authentication credentials for OpenAPI services

To invoke OpenAPI service operations secured by authentication schemes, you must configure the corresponding credentials and parameters in your application. {ServerlessLogicProductName} uses these configurations to authenticate with the external services during workflow execution.

> This procedure describes how to define and apply the necessary configuration properties for security schemes declared in the OpenAPI specification file. You can use either `application.properties`, the `ConfigMap` associated to your workflow, or environment variables to provide these credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This procedure describes how to define and apply the necessary configuration properties for security schemes declared in the OpenAPI specification file. You can use either `application.properties`, the `ConfigMap` associated to your workflow, or environment variables in the `SonataFlow` CR to provide these credentials.
```

====

.Prerequisites

* You have access to a {ServerlessLogicProductName} project with the appropriate roles and permissions to create applications and other workloads in {ocp-product-title}.
* Your OpenAPI specification is defined in one or more security schemes.
* You have access to the OpenAPI specification files.
* You have identified the schemes you want to configure `http-basic-example` or `api-key-example`.
* You have access to the application properties file, the workflow `ConfigMap`, or environment variable setup.

.Procedure

. Use the following format to compose your property keys:
+
[source,text]
----
quarkus.openapi-generator.[filename].auth.[security_scheme_name].[auth_property_name]
----
+
* `filename` is the sanitized name of the file containing the OpenAPI specification, such as security_example_json.
* `security_scheme_name` is the sanitized name of the security scheme object definition in the OpenAPI specification file, such as http_basic_example or api_key_example.
* `auth_property_name` is the name of the property to configure, such as username. This property depends on the defined security scheme type.

> 

Reviewer: [NOTE]
====
When you use environment variables, apply MicroProfile environment variable mapping rules and replace any non-alphabetic characters with underscores `_` as shown in the following examples.
====

Author: Added

> . Apply MicroProfile environment variable mapping rules and replace any non-alphabetic characters with underscores `_` as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+

> [source,text]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> export QUARKUS_OPENAPI_GENERATOR_SECURITY_EXAMPLE_JSON_AUTH_HTTP_BASIC_EXAMPLE_USERNAME=myuser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> export QUARKUS_OPENAPI_GENERATOR_SECURITY_EXAMPLE_JSON_AUTH_HTTP_BASIC_EXAMPLE_PASSWORD=mypassword

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> . Set the credentials by adding the configuration to your `application.properties`, workflow `ConfigMap` as follows: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of configuring the credentials by using the `application.properties` file: 
```

+
[source,text]
----
quarkus.openapi-generator.security_example_json.auth.http_basic_example.username=myuser
quarkus.openapi-generator.security_example_json.auth.http_basic_example.password=mypassword

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----

Example of configuring the credentials by using the workflow `ConfigMap`:
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
data:
  application.properties: |   
    quarkus.openapi-generator.security_example_json.auth.http_basic_example.username=myuser
    quarkus.openapi-generator.security_example_json.auth.http_basic_example.password=mypassword
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  labels:
    app: example-workflow
  name: example-workflow-props
  namespace: example-namespace
----

Example of configuring the credentials by using environment variables in the `SonataFlow` CR:

[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlow
metadata:
  name: example-workflow
  namespace: example-namespace
  annotations:
    sonataflow.org/description: Example Workflow
    sonataflow.org/version: 0.0.1
    sonataflow.org/profile: preview
spec:
  podTemplate:
    container:
      env:
        - name: QUARKUS_OPENAPI_GENERATOR_SECURITY_EXAMPLE_JSON_AUTH_HTTP_BASIC_EXAMPLE_USERNAME
          value: myuser
        - name: QUARKUS_OPENAPI_GENERATOR_SECURITY_EXAMPLE_JSON_AUTH_HTTP_BASIC_EXAMPLE_PASSWORD
          value: mypassowrd
  flow:
    # workflow definition was omitted for simplicity
----

```

Author: Added
